"Rub It In: Teasing someone to make them feel even worse after a defeat.

Context: Alright, you beat me. But there’s no need to rub it in."

"Walk on Eggshells: Being very careful when you are dealing with a very tense situation/person.

Context: After our argument last night, I feel like I’m walking on eggshells around her today."

"See Something Out of the Corner of Your Eye: Use peripheral vision

Context: I saw movement out of the corner of my eye and was able to pick out the person hiding."

"Speak of the Devil (and He Shall Appear): when you have been talking about someone and they immediately walk in..

Context: Speak of the devil, here he is!"

"Sweet Dreams!: I hope you get great sleep tonight.

Context: Goodnight, sweet dreams."

"Wild Goose Chase: going to search for something which seems to yield no results.

Context: He led us on a wild goose chase, we didn;t even find any evidence."

"Sneak Peek: Getting to see someone early before it is completed or made public to the world.

Context: Can I get a sneak peek of your new song before it’s released?"

"Second Wind: Regaining your energy.

Context: I found my second wind near the end of the basketball."

"Scare the Living Daylights Out of Someone: To be terrified by someone.

Context: Christ, you scared the living daylights out of me! Don’t creep up on me again."

"Touch One’s Heart: Affect someone emotionally, be touching.

Context: Your letter of gratitude touched my heart."

"Throw Someone Under the Bus: Revealing something that someone did that wasn’t meant to be known.

Context: Why did you have to throw him under the bus! He wasn’t ready to tell people about his sexuality yet."

"The tables have turned: Reverse a situation, you now have the upper hand in a situation where you previously had the lower hand. (This works vice versa).

Context: Oh, would you look at how the tables have turned! It looks like you’ll be the one apologising to me, not the other way around."

"Up in the Air: Nothing has yet been concluded.

The final date of the interview is still up in the air at the moment."

"Take a Deep Dive (Into): To go depth with your exploration.

Context: I’m going to take a deep dive into the topic of racial prejudice in Europe through the 90s."

"Rear Its Ugly Head: A problem that comes out unexpectedly.

Context: CAncer reared its ugly head."

"We’ll Cross That Bridge: When the problem has arrived and can’t be ignored anymore then we will think of a solution.

Context: “What about if it rains on the day?” “We’ll cross that bridge when we come to it.”"

"Run in the Family: A particular trait/behavior that seems to be common in a family.

Context: Impatience seems to run in the family."

"Third Time’s a Charm/Third Time Lucky: Even if you’ve failed the last two times you still have one more go, and that is likely to come out with a positive result.

Context: I failed my driving test twice. But hey ho, third time lucky..."

"Trash Talk: Insults directed at one’s opponent in a sporting event or contest.

Context: They’re giving each other trash talk in the pre match interviews."

"Tongue-in-Cheek: Said ironically; not meant to be taken seriously.

Context: I only meant it tongue in cheek, don’t take it too seriously."

"Take The Mickey (Piss) (Out Of Someone):To have banter with someone but making fun of them.

Context: Hey, stop taking the mickey out of me!"

"Up in Arms: Angry, protesting (usually said of a group).

Context: The fans are up in arms about the way the chairman has conducted business."

"Test the Waters: Try something out in a preliminary way.

Context: Before going all in, we need to test the waters first."

"Where There’s a Will, There’s a Way: If you have a strong desire to accomplish something, you will achieve it even in the face of considerable odds.

Context: I don’t know how I’m going to make it, but when there’s a will, there’s a way."

"Up for Grabs: It’s free for anyone to take.

Context: At this point in the game, first prize is still up for grabs."

"Turn Something on Its Head: Reverse something, cause something to be done in a new way.

Context: The new variant of the disease has turned the country’s healing efforts on it’s head."

"Take a Hike: Go away you're not wanted.

Context: Take a hike, this is an invite only club."

"To be Smitten With Someone: To like and fancy someone

Context: He’s absolutely smitten with his new girlfriend."

"Rookie Mistake: An error made by someone who is inexperienced.

Context: Sticking your finger in the dog’s mouth was a rookie mistake."

"Short Fuse: Someone that can easily get angry and reacts abrupts quickly.

Context: he’s got a short fuse so don’t tease him too much."

"Window Shop: To look at merchandise in a store without intending to buy it.

Context: I haven’t got much money, but we can go window shopping."

"Tough Cookie: Someone who has a strong spirit, with a lot of determination and is able to persevere in hard situations.

Context: He’ll be fine with his injury, he’s a tough cookie."

"Under the Weather: not feeling very well.

Context: She won’t be at work today, she’s been under the weather."

"Tie the Knot: Get married.

Context: My best friend tied the knot yesterday."

"Your Guess Is as Good as Mine: I don’t know; I have no idea.

Context: “What ever happened to Carly Rae Jepsen?” “Your guess is as good as mine.”"

Take It or Leave It (command): Stuck with choices, there are only two options available to you to make a decision on.

"Stand One’s Ground: To stop tolerating being mistreated and pushed round and taken advantage of.

Context: Dominic tried to take advantage of his younger sister, but she stood her ground."

"The Time is Ripe: If you say that the time is ripe, you mean that it is a suitable point for a particular activity.

Context: The time is ripe for me to ask her out to dinner."

"To Bear Fruit: To develop in a profitable or positive way.

Context: After lots of hard work, our efforts are bearing fruit."

"When In Doubt, Leave It Out: When unsure about something, omit it.

Context: “I’m not sure if this idiom actually exists?” “If in doubt, leave it out.”"

"Stand On One’s Own Two Feet: To be independent, being able to take care of oneself without the need of anyone else.

Context: I hear you crying but that’s on you. You can make it through, why don’t you stand on your two legs?"

"Take the Edge Off (of Something): To do something that will calm your nerves.

Context: Have a beer before the date, it’ll take the edge off."

"Seize the Day: To make the most out of your day.

Context: Seize the day, wake up early and get your important tasks done before lunchtime!"

"Wake Up on the Wrong Side of the Bed: Woke up being moody or grumpy.

Context: You’re being so rude, did you wake up on the wrong side of the bed this morning?"

"Roll With the Punches: Deal with problems by being flexible.

Context: The machine ran out of batteries while on stage but we rolled with the punches and improvised the rest of the scene."

"Sleep Like a Baby: To experience a very deep and restful sleep; to sleep soundly.

Context: I was so tired, I slept like a baby."

"Under Someone’s Spell: Fascinated, entranced by someone and not being able to see them clearly.

Context: Jack doesn’t take notice of Henry’s manipulative ways, he’s too under his spell."

"Tip of the Iceberg: A small, visible part of a much larger problem.

Context: The shortened version of the story you shared during the 2 minute interview was only the tip of the iceberg."

"Young at Heart: Having a youthful outlook, regardless of age.

Context: I’m not surprised grandad terry wanted to go bowling, he’s young at heart."

"Under (Below) the Radar: To not be noticed.

Context: If you don’t tell the chatterbox of the group, it’s easy for your dark secret to stay under the radar."

"Think Big: Consider ambitious plans; avoid becoming overly concerned with details.

Context: Stop worrying about the little bumps in the road, think biG!"

"Slippery Slope: A series of undesirable effects that, one warns, could result from a certain action.

Context: Using addictive drugs is a slippery slope."

"Wandering Eye: Never being satisfied with what you have, always looking for something else.

Context: I’m happy with Katie, but I just can’t stop my wandering eye."

"Set the Bar (Too) High: Having a high expectation for something.

Context: You’ve set the bar too high, you can’t expect such a high quality of work on the student’s first day at school."

"Throw in the Towel: To surrender or end something.

Context: You guys carry on playing, but i’m going to throw in the towel."

"Set in Stone: Stuck in a definite state.

Context: The date is not set in stone, we will see when everyone else is free."

"To Get Cold Feet: To experience reluctance or to change your mind after making a commitment.

Context: After we agreed to get married, I got cold feet."

"What Do You Make of (Him)?: What are your thoughts on him after you initial impression.

Context: I liked the new trainee today, but what do you make of him?"

"What Goes Around Comes Around: Every action you take will eventually come back round your way.

Context: You can treat him poorly, but what goes around comes around."

"Taste of Your Own Medicine: The same unpleasant experience or treatment that one has given to others.

Context: Someone was rude to you? You’ve been rude to me, so I’m glad you got a taste of your own medicine."

"Take It on The Chin: Don’t cry about it, be strong.

Context: everyone receives constructive criticism sometimes. You need to take it on the chin and use it as motivation to improve."

"Shoot Oneself In The Foot: Do something that damages oneself or one’s own cause.

Context: You’ve shot yourself in the foot by not bringing your wallet to the casino."

"Wash Your Hands of (Something): Decline to take further responsibility; refuse to be involved with something anymore.

Context: I wash my hands of any part in your silly scheme."

"Whipped : Being under the control of your partner.

Context: We never see Robbie anymore. He’s so whipped."

"Toot Your Own Horn: To brag or talk heavily about your own achievement when others have not even mentioned it.

Context: Stop bragging, no one likes a trumpet that toots their own horn."

"Think Outside the Box: Being creative with the way you approach and solve a problem/issue

Context: Your normal tactics won’t work on this problem child. You’re going to have to think outside the box to get him to behave."

"Race Against Time: In a hurry to get a piece of work done in time.

Context: I’m in a race against time to find the cure before innocent people die."

"U Turn: A complete change of opinion, direction, etc.

Context: He’s done a U turn on his decision to move away."

"To Have Butterflies In Your Stomach: To be nervous.

Context: I have butterflies in my stomach when I'm around her."

Take a Rain Check: Decline an invitation but suggest that you’ll accept it at a later time.

"Sitting Duck: Something or someone easily attacked or criticized.

Context: The elderly are sitting ducks. Let’s rob them."

"Take Something with a Pinch (grain) of Salt: Don't think what people say too seriously.

Context: He said he used to play for England, but I’d take what he said with a pinch of salt."

"Soak Up the Sun: enjoy the sunshine.

Context: I’m soaking up the sun today."

"The odds are stacked against you: You are in an Unfavorable situation where success is unlikely.

Context: The odds are stacked against you, it’ll take a lot of hard work to even match him, let alone beat him."

"Show One’s True Colors: someone's who reveals their true intentions.

Context: After all that lying, he’s shown his true colours."

"Start with a Clean Slate: Having a fresh start and forgetting about the past attempts to do something.

Context: Although we had a rough time yesterday, today we start with a clean slate."

"Take the High Road: Being the more moral person in an argument and diffusing the argument even though you are right.

Context: If you say so. I’m going to take the high road and leave it."

"To be the Apple of Someone’s Eye: To be loved and treasured by someone

Context: You’re the apple of my eye, i can’t live without you."

"Sweeten the Deal: Making a deal more attractive by adding a diresable offer to the mix.

Context: I’ll sweeten the deal; how about a bonus paycheck too?"

"Turn a Blind Eye: To choose to ignore something.

Context: Seeing as I don’t have the time to deal with another drug possession case, I’m going to turn a blind eye."

"Steal Someone’s Thunder: To outshine and out perform someone who was previously seen/has the reputation as the best at something.

Context: Don’t steal my thunder, that was my joke!"

"That’s a Stretch: someone exaggerated a fact or a story, or someone coming to a concussion that’s presumptuous.

Context: He said he fought them all off by himself? Hmmmm, I don't know about that, that’s a stretch."

"Sold On (Something): Convinced of something.

Context: I’m sold on the idea, let’s make it happen!"

"See Eye to Eye: To finally agree on something.

Context: I’m glad we can see eye to eye on this important topic."

"Your Number Is Up: You are going to die (or suffer some bad misfortune or setback).

Context: Your number is up. You’re going to jail for the rest of your life."

"You Know the Drill: You are already familiar with the procedure.

Context: Alright, same task as we do every monday guys, you know the drill."

"To Pop (one’s) Cherry: To lose your virginity.

Context: I popped her cherry."

"You Can Say That Again!: I agree totally!

Context: “This food is exquisite.” “Mmmm. You can say that again.”"

"Teach an Old Dog New Tricks: trying to change a person's perspective on a subject that they have long held a strong opinion on.

Context: The veteran salesman isn’t going to listen to your story about how you’ve increased sales through using social media. You can’t teach an old dog new tricks."

"To Each His Own: People have different preferences.

Context: I wouldn’t smoke cigarettes myself, but each to their own."

"Up to Scratch: Meeting a basic standard of competence or quality.

Context: Your first draft was unfortunately not up to scratch."

